Computers use many different types of sensors in order to perceive their environment.
I'm going to list as many sensors as I can really really fast.
Lidar, camera, radar, GNSS, IMU,
speedometer, odometer, laser range finders, thermal cameras.
I've run out, but I think if you search online,
you'll be able to find many more types of sensors that computers use
to perceive all different types of measurements in the environment.
Human beings also have five biological sensors that are
roughly analogous to the types of sensors that we build for machines.
The five biological senses are sight,
sound, smell, taste, and touch.
Sight, of course, is roughly analogous to cameras.
The same way cameras use ambient light in order to perceive the environment,
human beings have eyes that use ambient light
in order to build an understanding of our surroundings.
Sound is roughly analogous to audio sensors,
which can measure sound waves in order to
hear the same types of sounds that humans perceive.
Smell and taste are a little
bit less common with machines but I think if you search online,
you'll be able to find sensors that perceive particulate matter
that's roughly analogous to the way human beings smell and taste the world.
Touch could be seen as possibly analogous to lasers or radar sensors in the way that
lasers and radar actively emit signals into
the world and then receive those signals back and of course,
there are also tactile sensors that sense touch just the same way humans do.
All of these different sensors help both humans and machines
perceive the surrounding environment and
build a better understanding of the world that we live in.